README.md, before:

# Embeddable OpenHistoricalMap

This is a simple world historical map based on [OpenHistoricalMap](https://www.openhistoricalmap.org/) data that is suitable for embedding inside a third-party webpage. Using URL parameters, you can choose a location, time period, and cartographic style. To show a place’s evolution, you can also animate smoothly between two arbitrary dates. The map responds to gestures interactively, but the dates can only be adjusted via the URL.

Visit the map directly at [embed.openhistoricalmap.org](https://embed.openhistoricalmap.org/). Or export a code snippet for your webpage by opening the Share panel on the right side of [OHM’s homepage](https://www.openhistoricalmap.org/) and changing the format to “HTML”.

## URL parameters

The URL has typical z/x/y parameters for map zoom and center.

So a parameter like `#map=10/43.9367/12.5528` is zoom 10 showing San Marino in Italy, which is at `43.9367/12.5528` in `lon,lat` format of decimal degrees. [See the map.](https://embed.openhistoricalmap.org/#map=10/43.9367/12.5528)

An embedded map is typically of a different size and aspect ratio from the original and thus must be scaled in order to cover a comparable area. This is accomplished by passing the original map's bounding box in the hash as `&bbox=minlon,minlat,maxlon,maxlat`. Once the embedded map gets its initial framing from the `bbox` the normal hash mechanism takes over. The San Marino example could be bounded by appending `&bbox=12.321338653564453,43.86782687726672,12.58037567138672,44.008373185063874` to the URL. [See this map.](https://embed.openhistoricalmap.org/#map=10/43.9367/12.5528&bbox=12.321338653564453,43.86782687726672,12.58037567138672,44.008373185063874)

### Dates

Without a date parameter, the map shows everything in the OHM tiles for which there is a style specified. 

OHM-specific parameters:

* `date` is a valid YYYY, YYYY-MM, or YYYY-MM-DD date, but we allow the year to be a variable number of digits or negative, unlike ISO 8601-1. So here is San Marino in the year 1500 `#map=10/43.9367/12.5528&date=1500`. [See this map.](https://embed.openhistoricalmap.org/#map=10/43.9367/12.5528&date=1500)
* `layer` selects one of the OHM-compatible styles currently offered on openhistoricalmap.org:

Map layer | `layer` | Example
----|:--:|----
Historical | `O` | [New York in 1700](https://embed.openhistoricalmap.org/#map=18/40.70486/-74.01313&date=1700&layer=O)
Railway | `R` | [Sydney in 1924](https://embed.openhistoricalmap.org/#map=14/-33.8677/151.2105&date=1924&layer=R)
Woodblock | `W` | [San Marino in 1500](https://embed.openhistoricalmap.org/#map=10/43.9367/12.5528&date=1500&layer=W)
Japanese Scroll | `J` | [Osaka in 1970](https://embed.openhistoricalmap.org/#map=13/34.6914/135.5011&date=1970&layer=J)

The map can optionally animate if you specify the following parameters:

* `start_date` is the initial value of `date` at the beginning of the animation. If you also specify `date`, the `start_date` is ignored in favor of `date`.
* `end_date` is the final value of `date` at the end of the animation.
* `interval` is the difference in the dates depicted by any two consecutive frames of the animation, expressed as an ISO&nbsp;8601-1 duration. For example, `P10Y6M1D` advances each frame by 10&nbsp;years, 6&nbsp;months, and 1&nbsp;day, while `-P10Y6M1D` turns back the clock by 10&nbsp;years, 6&nbsp;months, and 1&nbsp;day on each frame. This parameter only supports years, months, and/or days. By default, the animation advances by one year at a time.
* `framerate` is the frequency of the animation measured in hertz, defaulting to `1` (1 hertz, or 1 frame per second).

### Language

By default, map labels appear in your preferred language according to [your browser preferences](https://www.w3.org/International/questions/qa-lang-priorities#changing). You can also override this preference by setting the `language` parameter to an ISO&nbsp;639 language code. For example, add `&language=cop&date=700` to see [Roman Egypt labeled in Copt](https://embed.openhistoricalmap.org/#map=7/30.423/30.636&layer=O&language=cop&date=700). If OHM doesn’t have the name of a place in this preferred language, the label appears in the contemporary local language as a last resort.

## Embedding

Simply use code like this to embed:
```html
    <iframe src="https://embed.openhistoricalmap.org/#map=10/43.9367/12.5528&date=1500&layer=O" height="500" width="100%" title="OpenHistoricalMap: San Marino in 1500"></iframe> 
```

Here's an [example iframe](https://embed.openhistoricalmap.org/iframe-example.html).

## Feedback

Please submit bug reports and feature requests to [OpenHistoricalMap’s central issue tracker](https://github.com/OpenHistoricalMap/issues/issues/), noting “OpenHistoricalMap embed” somewhere in the title or description.

Commit message:

Explain how to show the original primary names

README.md, after:

# Embeddable OpenHistoricalMap

This is a simple world historical map based on [OpenHistoricalMap](https://www.openhistoricalmap.org/) data that is suitable for embedding inside a third-party webpage. Using URL parameters, you can choose a location, time period, and cartographic style. To show a place’s evolution, you can also animate smoothly between two arbitrary dates. The map responds to gestures interactively, but the dates can only be adjusted via the URL.

Visit the map directly at [embed.openhistoricalmap.org](https://embed.openhistoricalmap.org/). Or export a code snippet for your webpage by opening the Share panel on the right side of [OHM’s homepage](https://www.openhistoricalmap.org/) and changing the format to “HTML”.

## URL parameters

The URL has typical z/x/y parameters for map zoom and center.

So a parameter like `#map=10/43.9367/12.5528` is zoom 10 showing San Marino in Italy, which is at `43.9367/12.5528` in `lon,lat` format of decimal degrees. [See the map.](https://embed.openhistoricalmap.org/#map=10/43.9367/12.5528)

An embedded map is typically of a different size and aspect ratio from the original and thus must be scaled in order to cover a comparable area. This is accomplished by passing the original map's bounding box in the hash as `&bbox=minlon,minlat,maxlon,maxlat`. Once the embedded map gets its initial framing from the `bbox` the normal hash mechanism takes over. The San Marino example could be bounded by appending `&bbox=12.321338653564453,43.86782687726672,12.58037567138672,44.008373185063874` to the URL. [See this map.](https://embed.openhistoricalmap.org/#map=10/43.9367/12.5528&bbox=12.321338653564453,43.86782687726672,12.58037567138672,44.008373185063874)

### Dates

Without a date parameter, the map shows everything in the OHM tiles for which there is a style specified. 

OHM-specific parameters:

* `date` is a valid YYYY, YYYY-MM, or YYYY-MM-DD date, but we allow the year to be a variable number of digits or negative, unlike ISO 8601-1. So here is San Marino in the year 1500 `#map=10/43.9367/12.5528&date=1500`. [See this map.](https://embed.openhistoricalmap.org/#map=10/43.9367/12.5528&date=1500)
* `layer` selects one of the OHM-compatible styles currently offered on openhistoricalmap.org:

Map layer | `layer` | Example
----|:--:|----
Historical | `O` | [New York in 1700](https://embed.openhistoricalmap.org/#map=18/40.70486/-74.01313&date=1700&layer=O)
Railway | `R` | [Sydney in 1924](https://embed.openhistoricalmap.org/#map=14/-33.8677/151.2105&date=1924&layer=R)
Woodblock | `W` | [San Marino in 1500](https://embed.openhistoricalmap.org/#map=10/43.9367/12.5528&date=1500&layer=W)
Japanese Scroll | `J` | [Osaka in 1970](https://embed.openhistoricalmap.org/#map=13/34.6914/135.5011&date=1970&layer=J)

The map can optionally animate if you specify the following parameters:

* `start_date` is the initial value of `date` at the beginning of the animation. If you also specify `date`, the `start_date` is ignored in favor of `date`.
* `end_date` is the final value of `date` at the end of the animation.
* `interval` is the difference in the dates depicted by any two consecutive frames of the animation, expressed as an ISO&nbsp;8601-1 duration. For example, `P10Y6M1D` advances each frame by 10&nbsp;years, 6&nbsp;months, and 1&nbsp;day, while `-P10Y6M1D` turns back the clock by 10&nbsp;years, 6&nbsp;months, and 1&nbsp;day on each frame. This parameter only supports years, months, and/or days. By default, the animation advances by one year at a time.
* `framerate` is the frequency of the animation measured in hertz, defaulting to `1` (1 hertz, or 1 frame per second).

### Language

By default, map labels appear in your preferred language according to [your browser preferences](https://www.w3.org/International/questions/qa-lang-priorities#changing). You can also override this preference by setting the `language` parameter to an ISO&nbsp;639 language code. For example, add `&language=cop&date=700` to see [Roman Egypt labeled in Copt](https://embed.openhistoricalmap.org/#map=7/30.423/30.636&layer=O&language=cop&date=700). If OHM doesn’t have the name of a place in this preferred language, the label appears in the contemporary local language as a last resort. To force the display of names in contemporary local languages, set the `language` parameter to `mul` (the ISO&nbsp;639 code for multilingual content).

## Embedding

Simply use code like this to embed:
```html
    <iframe src="https://embed.openhistoricalmap.org/#map=10/43.9367/12.5528&date=1500&layer=O" height="500" width="100%" title="OpenHistoricalMap: San Marino in 1500"></iframe> 
```

Here's an [example iframe](https://embed.openhistoricalmap.org/iframe-example.html).

## Feedback

Please submit bug reports and feature requests to [OpenHistoricalMap’s central issue tracker](https://github.com/OpenHistoricalMap/issues/issues/), noting “OpenHistoricalMap embed” somewhere in the title or description.
